I'm challenging you to make it through
this video. This integral is no joke,
and we're going to have to draw upon a
couple of pretty powerful functions to
get the job done. But if you can make it
through, I promise it will be worth the
wait and the struggle because the answer
is pretty remarkable. The first tool
we'll need is the Lambert function,
usually denoted with a W. Here's its
series representation. Why do we care
about this? Well, the Lambert function
is the inverse function to x * e to the
x. And remember how inverse functions
work. When we compose them either way
around, they essentially undo each other
and they just spit out x. So when we
compose w and x * e to x either way
around, we just get out x because
they're inverse functions. The next tool
we need is the gamma function. It
probably deserves its own video, but the
gamma function is the generalized
factorial function typically defined as
this improper integral. The last major
tool we need to solve this problem is
the remon zeta function and its cousin,
and I'm not going to be able to say this
correctly, direct ADA function. Since
the ADA and the zeta functions are so
similar, they have a very nice
relationship that lets us transfer
between the two. Now that we have all
the tools we need, let's get after this
problem. Now, I certainly don't know how
to integrate this as is. Let's find a
different representation for our
integrant and integrate that. I'll just
call our integrant y. And the first
thing to notice about it is that it's
this ascending tower of x to the x. It's
like this infinite iteration. And
another way to write this would be y = x
to x all to the y. It has this
repetition pattern to it. We could keep
substituting x to the x to the y in for
y and it would build this infinite
tower. Writing it like this lets us take
advantage of our properties of
logarithms. Let's take the natural
logarithm of both sides here. So ln of y
= ln of x to x to the y. With properties
of logarithms, we'll take this y down
front and this will be y natural log of
x to the x. And now, for seemingly no
apparent reason, we'll insert an e to
the ln. Remember that e and ln, the
exponential function and the natural
logarithmic function are inverses of
each other. They undo each other. So, we
can insert them. I'm just going to put
an e to the ln right here around this y.
And this is completely legal. Now, let's
take this and divide both sides by this
e to the natural log y term. And maybe
you can see where we're going if you
think back to that Lambert function.
Remember that the Lambert function is
the inverse function of x e to the x. So
this is pretty close, isn't it? We have
a natural log y e to the natural log y.
So let's make these exactly match up by
taking the negative of both sides here.
Compose both sides with w. And we can
finally take advantage of the property
that w of x e to the x is simply x or
really x in this case is minus natural
log
y. So now we've composed those. We've
cancelled things out with the Lambert
function. We're only a few steps away
from solving for
y. So ln of y is minus w of minus ln of
x to x. Or we could take the e of both
sides and say that our original y is
also equal to e to the minus w of minus
natural log of x to the x. Now thanks to
those inverse properties of the lambert
function, we can rearrange this. So we
have e to the minus w of something in
the exponent. Let's do just that. Let's
divide both sides by x and divide both
sides by e to the w of x. w of x /x
= e to the minus w ofx. And now we have
yet another representation for what we
have as
y. Just match these things up and we now
have y as well it's w of x overx but
it's not x in this case it's minus ln of
x to x. So this will be w of - ln of x
to
x all over x which in this case is - ln
of x to the x. And maybe let's just take
advantage of those logarithms one more
time to drop down these x to the x
powers. And we're finally getting
somewhere. This is something we can
integrate. So now our job is to
integrate this. How do we do that? Well,
remember that power series
representation of W, let's plug minus X,
L, and X into that series
representation. Glossing over a few of
the algebraic details. This is our new
integrant. So, let's switch these
symbols. Everything that doesn't have an
x attached, we'll pull out of the sum.
So, we've separated these. And maybe
this is a little bit of a copout, but
this integral right here is a variant on
the gamma function. This is something I
would probably look up on a table of
integrals, but let's just replace this.
And we've performed all the integration
we need. We just need to figure out what
this sum equals and we'll be all set.
How many negative 1's do we have? We
have 2 to the n. We've got a minus1 to
another n. That's three n's. And an
extra negative would make an extra 1. So
this -1 is to the power of 3 n + 1. This
1 / n to the n would cancel with this n
to the n and we'd have an extra 1 overn
left over. Gamma of n is equal to n
minus one factorial. And so the n minus
one factorial over the n factorial is
another 1 /n. If we start writing out
the terms of this series, what we're
seeing is that this is the function
evaluated at 2. And we have that
relationship between the ada function
and the remon zeta function. And if you
compute this, this is a half. So we have
1/2 of the remon zeta
function at two. And so we're finally
here. Our original problem which we
rewrote using the Lambert function
integrated using the gamma function
defined it as the ADA function which is
1/2 of the zeta function 1 / n. This is
the zeta function at 2. This is a famous
well-known result. 1 n^2 from 1 to
infinity. This is pi^2ar over 6. And so
our final answer is p<unk>^2 over 12.
What an amazing result. So much went
into this. It's hard to believe that
this is the crazy answer that we got. If
you're looking for the decimal
representation, this is about 822. This
shape is known as a bell curve or we
might call it a Gaus curve. It's super
important for many reasons. One of the
most popular applications is the normal
probability distribution. This
symmetrical shape describes a lot of
phenomenon in the real world and the way
we use it to find probabilities is by
measuring the area under a curve between
different values. We have to account for
some normalizing constants. But really
this shape comes from this function e to
the minus x^2. And you know, if we want
the area under this curve, well, we're
going to have to do some integration.
And this function, I don't know how well
I've drawn it, but it stretches forever
to the left and to the right. It has an
infinite domain. So, we want to
integrate this thing over its entire
domain to find the
area. So, this is now our problem. The
definite integral from minus infinity to
infinity of this function eus x^2 dx.
And what you may notice is that none of
the regular integration techniques work
very well here. There's no like u
substitution or integration by parts
that's going to be able to solve this.
And we could use a power series, but h
that's going to get a little bit clunky.
That's maybe how we would do it if it
wasn't a definite integral. If we didn't
have any bounds. So here's the trick.
Here's the technique. We're going to
just call this I. I for integral.
And I'm going to square both sides of
this equation. I'm going to square this
entire integral. Not something you're
used to doing, but what does something
squared really mean? Well, it means
times itself. So, this just means the
definite integral from minus infinity to
infinity of this time itself. Now, a
subtle trick here that this quantity, it
didn't really matter that I called it x,
right? We could have used t's or z's or
y's. And I'm going to use a y here to
represent the other one. And it's
equally equivalent because when we
actually integrate this, well, all the
x's go away, don't they? Think
fundamental theorem of calculus. We end
up just plugging in for x. So, it
doesn't matter what letter we use here.
I'll just
call
y on this second integral and these are
being these are being multiplied but
it's the same quantity they're both i.
So this is
i^2 and actually since both the letters
are completely different here and they
have the same definite bounds here minus
infinity to infinity. This is what's
known as separable. These integrals are
separable. If you go into multivariable
calculus, you might try to split up
these integrals to make them easier.
Here, we're going to combine them. So,
this is exactly the same thing as a
single definite
integral putting these both inside the
integrant. So, they're both base e. When
we multiply like bases, we add the
exponents. So - x^2 - y^2. That's the
same as minus x^2 + y^2 in the exponent.
And then we have I really should need
two integrals here. We're integrating
twice. We're putting these together. And
I'll just say dy dx. If you've had some
experience in multivariable calculus,
you might know where we're going next.
This is still a pretty wonky integral to
solve, but it's in rectangular
coordinates that's making it wonky. A
square coordinate system, but x^2 + y^2,
think pythagorean theorem. Think trig.
Think the fundamental trigonometric
identity. x^2 + y^2 is r 2. The pagorean
theorem. We're going to make a change of
coordinates here. We're going to switch
to polar coordinates. Instead of using
rectangular, we will use the trig
functions and the Pythagorean theorem to
change this coordinate system. And I
guess you could call it a substitution.
I mean, really what we're doing is
saying x^2 + y^2 = r 2. We're going to
have to change these bounds. And in the
polar coordinate system, dy dx or dx dy,
this turns into what's known as its
Jacobian
rdr d theta. So we're changing from x
and y's to rs and
thetas. And what we also need to do is
change these bounds. So if you think
about the polar coordinate
system, we're instead thinking of not
rectangles but circles, the radius r
starts at the origin and extends
forever. Well, originally the x
boundaries when we think dx were minus
infinity to infinity, forever to the
left and forever to the right. Well, for
r boundaries, the r always starts at the
origin, namely at zero and then in this
case continues out forever. So these
bounds, the rb bounds will be 0 to
infinity.
And the y bounds which were minus
infinity to infinity for the same reason
turn into theta boundaries. Well, if you
think about the unit circle or just any
circle, we get co-terminal angles. So we
can describe every single angle in one
sweep of a circle 0 to 360 or we
typically use 0 to 2 pi radians. This is
the substitution.
And so at this point, you might think,
"Oh, we're good to go." Well, we
actually have to make one more
substitution. If I just gave you this
integral in a calc 1 or 2 class, you
could probably figure it out via a u
substitution, letting u equal the minus
r 2, that would make du - 2rd dr. And
that's going to take care of this
exponent and this extra factor of r
because our dr is going to be a du over
min - 2r. So if you go ahead and make
this substitution, this outer integral
won't change. Still 0 to 2 pi. But this
integral which was r boundaries, we need
to change them to u boundaries. I like
to make a little tea table here for u's
and rs. Originally, r was infinity and
zero. Well, if we plug these into our
substitution, if r is zero, u will be
zero. So, this lower boundary stays the
same. And if we plug in infinity, well,
you can't really plug in infinity. But
if we could think order of operations,
infinity squared would be infinity and
then negative. This would be negative
infinity. And we should line these up
just as they are. And maybe this feels a
little bit uncomfortable. Typically, we
like the lower limit of integration to
be less than the upper limit of
integration. We'll fix that with this
negative that comes out of the
substitution here because our
dr becoming a du over minus
2r. We still have a d theta. We still
have that r and e to the minus r^ 2
became e to the u. Well, thankfully now
we're getting these rs canceling out.
And we can even take this negative and
one property of definite integrals, if
you multiply by a negative, it has the
effect of changing the bounds or
flipping them. So really we could
rewrite this definite integral 0 to 2
pi minus infinity to
0 e to the u du d theta over
2. And we're finally ready to actually
compute this thing. If you don't mind, I
factor out the 1/2. And we could even
unseparate this now. Kind of doing the
reverse of what we did before. There are
no thetas inside this integrant. So
maybe you would want to just make this 0
to 2 pi of 1 d
theta integral minus infinity to 0 e to
the u du and compute these separately.
Looks like we've got 12 the
anti-derivative of 1 d theta is simply
theta and we're evaluating from 0 to 2
pi. And then this is being multiplied by
the anti-derivative of e to the u is e
to the u evaluated from minus infinity
to 0. Now I'm being a little bit
generous with my notation here. We can't
really evaluate at negative infinity.
But what we can do is take the limit. So
traditionally what we would do is let t
approach negative infinity here. I don't
have enough space on the board, but just
know that that's really what we're
doing. We're really taking the limit
here when I plug in minus infinity. So
it looks like we're getting 12. If I
plug in 2 pi, that'll be 2 pi minus plug
in 0, that'll be zero. And this is being
multiplied by e to the 0, which is 1
minus, and again, I'm not really
plugging in infinity, but if I could, it
would be e to the minus infinity, which
tends towards zero. Think of the graph
of e to the x as that horizontal asmtote
along the x-axis. As we go all the way
to the left, e disappears. So really,
this is like 12 * 2 pi * 1 or simply pi.
Wow, did you expect a pi to fall out of
here? And we're not quite done
yet. Because if this equals pi, this was
the square of what we actually wanted.
So really, if we take the square root of
both sides, well, we'll get what we
want. We'll get our original integral.
quite amazing that the area under that
curve is square root of pi. And this is
where if you've ever seen these normal
curves and the formulas for them, you'll
see a square root of pi or a square<unk>
of 2 pi when we kind of adjust for some
things. A pretty amazing result from a
pretty amazing integral. Everyone always
wants to know when are we going to need
math? Well, how about for some free
Wi-Fi? because this math meme promises
you that if you can just solve this
integral. Problem is, this seems like a
tough one. But truth be told, you don't
actually need any calculus to solve
this. You just need to know what a
definite integral represents
geometrically and a little bit of
algebra. So, what does this definite
integral really represent? Well,
definite integrals give us the area
under the curve of this function. So
we're just interested in the area under
this function from minus2 to 2. And
really we can think of this as two
separate functions if we do this
distribution. So what's the area under
the curve from minus2 to 2 for these two
functions? Typically we'd have to do a
bunch of calculus nonsense. But the fact
that we're integrating over a symmetric
interval -2 to 2 gives us some very
important clues. You see, if we do this
for an odd function, on one half of the
interval, the area will be negative. On
the other half of the interval, the area
will be positive, and it will cancel
everything out. And so, it doesn't
really matter what the function is. If
we're integrating an odd function over a
symmetric interval, the area will end up
being zero. And although this function
is quite wonky, we can just rely on the
algebraic fact that x cubed is an odd
function. Cosine of x /2 is an even
function. And the square<unk> of 4 - x^2
is also an even function. When it comes
to these functions, an odd * an even
time an even is an odd. And so this
function that we're integrating over a
symmetric interval is an odd function.
meaning the entire integral is zero for
this part. All we have to figure out is
the part of the integral that's just
1/2<unk> 4 - x^ 2. Now, this isn't an
odd function, so we can't use the same
trick. And you might think we have to
actually do some calculus here, but no.
Integrals are just area under the curve.
And this function happens to be a
semicircle of radius 2. So, all we need
to do is compute the area of this
semicircle, multiply it by a half. Hey,
wouldn't you know it, we're getting pi,
which is like super frustrating because
the Wi-Fi password is the first 10
digits and you'd probably have to use
the internet to look up those digits in
the first place. Take a look at this
wild integral. If you were in Cal 2, you
would probably start off with a trig
substitution. Let's give it a try. See
that x^2 + 1 in the denominator? That
looks an awful lot like the trig
identity. Tangent^2 + 1 is secant^
squar. So if we let x= tangent theta and
substitute that into the denominator,
we'll get that identity. We'll have to
substitute tan theta in for x in the
numerator. And since we're changing the
variable, we're going to need to change
the differential. Let's take the
derivative to get dx. That'll be the
derivative of tangent theta, which is
secant^ squar theta d theta. Lastly,
let's just change those x bounds to u
bounds. If we plug in 0 for x, we'll see
that's also 0 for theta. If we plug in 1
for x, that will be pi over4 for theta.
So, we've transformed our integral, but
we're not quite at a place where we can
integrate this yet. Sometimes it's
easier to rewrite functions in terms of
s and cosine. Let's do that. tangent is
s over cosine. And let's go ahead and
combine with the plus one. Get a common
denominator. We'll have s plus cosine
over cosine inside that logarithm. When
you have the log of a quotient, it's
just screaming to use properties of
logarithms. So, let's do the log of the
numerator minus the log of the
denominator. Things seem to be cleaning
up quite nicely, but we're still no
closer to actually integrating this. We
know sin^ 2 + cosine^ squ is 1. But what
about sin to the 1st plus cosine to the
1st inside the logarithm? No less. This
is where things get a little bit tricky.
Notice that we're already subtracting a
log of cosine. Maybe we can rewrite s
plus cosine in terms of just cosine.
Essentially, we're going to derive a
less well-known trig identity. Let's
just say s + cosine equals some constant
* cosine of theta plus some other
constant. Luckily, we do have the very
well-known trig identities for cosine of
a sum or a difference. Let's just apply
that here. We have sin theta is on the
left. We have sin theta is on the right.
We have cosine theta is on the left. We
have cosine theta is on the right. Let's
do matching coefficients. The
coefficients on the left side are one.
The coefficients on the right side,
well, they're a little more complicated,
but they have to equal one. Now, we can
take advantage of the fundamental trig
identity. Square both sides of both
these equations and add them up. Then,
we can factor out the constants. Sin^ 2
+ cosine^ squar, that's 1. 1 + 1 is 2.
This lets us solve for one of our
constants as square<unk> of two.
substitute this value back into those
two equations and take the inverse trig
functions. It'll let us solve for that
other constant we were looking for. And
so whether you realized it or not, sin
theta plus cosine theta can be written
as square<unk> 2 cossine theta -<unk> /
4. So now once again we have the log of
a product. Let's just split that up into
separate logarithms and we'll use
properties of logarithms to drop that
exponent down front. Time for the fun
part. Maybe you don't think we've
actually done anything to help us
integrate this. Well, we could integrate
that first part. It's just a constant,
so that's not really a big deal. But
look at those two coiness inside the
logarithm. They're pretty similar. One's
just theta, the other is the minus
p<unk> /4. And we're integrating from 0
to p<unk> /4. Cosine is an even
function. So theta -<unk> /4 is the same
as p<unk> /4 - theta when it's inside
cosine. Do a u substitution here. Let
u=<unk> 4 - theta. That means du = minus
d theta. And this integral can be
rewritten as natural log cosine of udu.
To change the bounds when theta is
p<unk> /4, u will be 0. And when theta
is 0, u will be p<unk> /4. So look at
these two definite integrals. They're
the same thing. Their underlying
variables are different, but if we were
to compute the integrals, the values
would be exactly the same. We have an
addition of one, a subtraction of the
other, and so they cancel each other
out. All that's left to do is
anti-derive this constant by multiplying
it by theta, substitute in pi over4, and
there you go is our answer to that slick
definite integral. golden integral,
which admittedly is a little
intimidating now that you know what FE
is and having it show up in those
exponents. To solve this, we'll have to
know a few facts about the golden ratio.
Namely, that it's a solution to this
quadratic equation, which is to say f ^2
minus v = 1 or dividing by v gives us 1
/ v = v minus 1. Keeping that in mind,
how should we tackle this integral? One
way is via a very slick
substitution. Let's let u= x to the v.
That makes du v * x -1 dx using the
power rule or du over v x -1 is dx.
Notice that we don't have to change our
limits of integration since when x is
zero, u is also zero. And when x tends
towards infinity, so does u. Making this
substitution leaves us with a bit of a
cluttered integrant, though. The 1 / v
is a constant. We can pull that outside
the integral, but the only variable
inside should be u now that we're
integrating with respect to u. To see
what's going on, let's break that x up
using properties of exponents. And
looking back at our substitution, we
know what x to the v is. It's u. But
what is just
x? We can solve for x in terms of u by
taking our substitution equation to the
1 over v power. Now u to the 1 over v is
x. And we can complete our substitution.
What we have now should remind you about
those facts of the golden ratio, namely
1 / v= f minus one. Let's replace
that and combine these 's once again
using properties of exponents. Now, I've
left these exponents this way for a very
specific reason. And using just a little
bit of trickery, I'll rewrite the
exponent in the denominator as well. Why
do this? Well, frequent viewers of this
channel might know I'm a pretty big fan
of the gamma function, but not in this
video. Gamma doesn't show up here. It's
gamma's cousin, the beta function. In
fact, what we have here is a variant on
the beta function. We just have to be
very careful with how we match things
up. X in the beta function is F minus
one inside our integral. and y in the
beta function is just one inside our
integral. That's why we left the
exponents the way that we did. Noticing
that actually completes our integration.
We have 1 / v beta of v minus1 and 1.
The beta function actually does evaluate
to a combination of gamma functions. So
what we have is 1 / v * gamma of f -1
gamma of 1 / gamma of v - 1 + 1 gamma of
v. The gamma function is the generalized
factorial function. gamma x is x -1
factorial. Thus we have v minus 2
factorial 0 factorial which is 1 and f
minus one factorial. We can simplify
this using properties of
factorials. F - 2 factorial over -1
factorial cancels to 1 / f minus one.
This solution is pretty elegant because
one more time remember 1 / v is f
minus1. These cancel out and we get one.
That is an absolutely incredible result.
We'll start this off in a similar way we
often do with these types of problems.
Properties of logarithms. Insert an e to
the ln so that we can drop that exponent
down in front of the logarithm. This is
a very common technique. And part of the
reason we do it is to take advantage of
the tailaylor series, the power series
for e to the x. It's not just x that we
have here. It's x * natural log x, but
it fits into the formula all the same.
To keep going, we do have to switch the
integral and the summation sign, which
you can't always do, even though quite
often you can. I made a video you can
check out in the right hand corner
addressing this issue. Now that we've
switched these, let's pull out
everything that only has an n attached.
That way, all of the x's are inside of
our integral. This is probably also a
good place for me to point out that you
might have to worry about some domain
issues when you're doing things like
this. That zero as the lower limit might
give you some heebie-jebies. We'll just
let it go. And here comes really the
challenge of this integral. How on earth
are we going to do this? Spoiler alert,
I'm not going to use the gamma function.
I'm going to do a technique from another
video that I've done. the Fineman trick
or differentiating under the integral.
You can check out a full video on that
topic here in the right hand corner. But
we did a really similar technique
starting with just x to the n. Notice we
can integrate this without much issue
just regular old add one to the power
divide by the new power and evaluate
using the fundamental theorem of
calculus. What gets really interesting
about this is when we differentiate both
sides, specifically partial
differentiating with respect to n.
Glossing over some of the
details, what this trick allows us to do
is slip the differentiation operator
inside the integral and differentiate
under the integral sign. Now, be careful
here. The variable of differentiation is
n. So remember your rules for
differentiating when the variable is the
exponent. The derivative of x to the n
with respect to n is x to the n natural
log x. And we can differentiate the
right hand side in the normal way either
with the quotient or reciprocal rule.
And you might say, so what? We only have
a single power of natural log. We have n
of them in our original problem. Well,
let's just differentiate this n
times. It's a little harder to see if
you actually differentiate n times and
multiply everything together. So, this
is what it would look like after
differentiating 100 times or if you
differentiate k times, you can really
see the distinction between the powers
of x and the powers of the natural
logarithm. And at this point, I would
just let k equal n to get this. And in
my opinion, that's a pretty cool
expression just for that integral alone.
But that was not our original problem.
Our original problem was this sum with
this integral inside. So now that we
have this, let's put it all together.
And nice things happen. Effectively, the
n factorials cancel out. We get this
really adorable sum. You can start
writing it out and if you put this into
a computer without using too many terms,
you'll get a really nice approximation.
You of course can verify that this does
converge by one of the tests from calc
2. Start by making the substitution u
=<unk> tan
x. This would mean the same thing as u
^2= tangent x.
That'll make it a little bit nicer for
us to find du. When we take the
derivative of both
sides, 2 u to the 1st du will be the
derivative of tan x, which is secant^ 2
x
dx. Or if you prefer to solve for
dx, 2 u du over secant^ 2 x is dx.
Making these substitutions inside of our
integral is going to leave us with this
secant^ 2 x in the denominator. And
since we're integrating in terms of u,
everything in our integrant should be
u's. What is secant^ 2 x in terms of u?
Well, head back to our substitution.
If we square both sides of our
substitution, that would mean u to the
4th is tan^ 2 x and via that nice
trigonometric identity tangent^ 2 x is
the same as secant^ 2 x -
1. That's pretty convenient because now
we can solve for secant^ 2 x by adding
one to both sides. secant^ squar in this
case will be u 4 + 1 and we can
substitute this into our
integral. Now we have a new but
admittedly still challenging integral to
solve. Here's the very fancy algebraic
footwork. Divide every term top and the
bottom by u^2. So in a sense we're
multiplying by 1 u ^2 over 1
u^2. Our integral will reduce to 2 over
u ^2 + 1 u
^2. Why do this? Well the denominator
very subtly can be written in two ways
using a perfect square.
If we look at the denominator and add
zero, a very special
zero, 2 u over u - 2 u over u. That's an
addition by
zero. And if we write the terms this way
and factor, we get this
expression or we could do it this way
and get this expression.
What we have is two different
representations of the
denominator. Why do we need
two? Well, let's add another zero in the
numerator. This time we'll add and
subtract 1 over u
^2 and we'll also break up the two as 1
+ 1.
All of this fancy algebraic footwork is
so we can split up this integral into
two different
integrals. The first with the numerator
1 - 1 / u ^2 and the second with the
numerator 1 + 1 u
^2. The denominators are the
same. But for the first integral, we'll
use the representation for the
denominator, which is u + 1 / u all^ 2 -
2. And for the second denominator's
representation, we'll use u - 1 u all^ 2
+
2. That was a ton of jumping through
hoops just to get these representations
of our integrant. Why do all of this
nonsense? Well, it gives us a chance to
again use very straightforward
substitutions. Let's let z= u + 1 over
u. And let's let y = u - 1 / u. That
makes dz 1 - 1 u^2 du and dy 1 + 1 u^2
du.
These substitutions clean up our
denominators very nicely. And hey,
wouldn't you know it, it completely
clears the numerator when we substitute
in our
differentials. How do we compute these
anti-derivatives? Well, these are
actually direct formulas to get the
inverse tangent functions.
So we end up with -1 / <unk>2 ar tan of
z over <unk>2 + 1 / <unk>2 ar tan of y
over <unk>2 plus some constant c of
course but we knew what z was. Z was U +
1 over U. And we also knew what Y was. Y
was U - 1 over
U. But we actually started with X's. So
what was
U? U was the square root of tan X. And
we have this final very long very wonky
solution which if you were to take the
derivative with respect to x we would
get square<unk> tan x. Can you compute
this using standard integration
techniques? I'll be honest if you can
I'll be very very impressed. What you
learn in calculus probably won't do the
job for this but we could compute this
integral if we just take away the
natural logarithm. This is just the
opposite of the power rule. Add one to
the power, divide by the new power. And
we can just evaluate using the
fundamental theorem of
calculus. And if we wanted to be a
little bit more general, well, we could
just do this with the variable n instead
of having an exponent of 100. It works
out the exact same way. And we get the
answer in the exact same way,
too. Notice that this is an equality. So
if I differentiate one side, it's the
same as differentiating the other. And
I'm going to take the derivative, the
partial derivative with respect to
n. And this is the trick I'm really
trying to show you here. The fact that
we can take this partial derivative
inside the
integral. This is known as
differentiating under the integral. It's
often called the Fineman trick or the
linenets rule for integrals. Taking the
derivative with respect to n, we have to
remember our rules for differentiating
exponential functions. This derivative
is x to the n natural log x. This isn't
the power rule. We're differentiating
with respect to n here. So this is an
exponential function with base x. And
interestingly enough, we've solved a
similar type of problem we had before.
It's just we only have the natural log x
to the 1st instead of to the 100th. But
what if we kept going? What if we took
the derivative of both sides again?
Well, on the left, we would just move
the derivative inside the integral. We'd
take the derivative of x to the n again,
which would be x to the n * ln x and
we'd have ln
x^2. You could multiply these numbers
together in the numerator on the right
hand side, but I think I'll leave them
like this so that we can see the
pattern. Keep taking derivatives like
this. Our third derivative, we'd have x
to the n ln x cubed on the left hand
side and on the right minus1 cubed * 3
factorial over n + 1 4th. See if you can
notice the pattern. If we took 100
derivatives, we would get on the left
hand side something very close to the
original integral we were trying to
solve. And the pattern on the right min
-1 to the 100 * 100 factorial over n +1
to the power of 101. And now we have a
function that gives us this integral for
whatever power of x we'd like. In
particular, we wanted x's power to be
100. So let's just substitute 100. We'll
have the integral we're interested in
and we get the result as well. Let's do
another example so you can really see
more about how this trick works. Here's
a fairly challenging integral. I don't
know how you would do this without using
this trick. What we'd like to do is
differentiate under the integral sign in
a way that it makes our problem easier.
To do that, we're going to have to
define a new function so that when we
take the derivative, it's a different
variable than
t. Let's define things this way. Why do
it this way? Well, again, for the same
reason, when we take the derivative of t
tox, it's t to x natural log t. The
derivative of one is zero. But the point
is that the natural logarithm functions
cancel out.
And this is really the point of the
trick. You want to take derivatives to
either create the situation you want or
create an easier situation for
yourself. Now we have the derivative of
our defined function as the definite
integral from 0 to 1. But we're
integrating with respect to t. Again, we
can do this just using the fundamental
theorem of calculus. Applying the
reverse power rule. add one to the
power, divide by the new power and
substitute these
variables. The difference here is that
our result is actually the derivative of
the function we really want. So really
we have to integrate this. If we take
the anti-derivative of 1 /x + 1, it's
natural log absolute value of x + 1 and
we need a constant plus c.
This works out pretty nicely because if
we substitute zero, natural log of one
is zero and so c is zero as well. Our
function is just natural log absolute
value of x +
1. Now we can substitute anything we
want. If we wanted to compute our
original question which had a t to the
10th, just substitute 10. It'll be
natural log of 11. Or just as easily,
you could solve this integral with a t
to the 100th by plugging in 100 and it
would be natural log of 101. This
integral is called the sophomore's
dream. It's called that because the
solution is pretty amazing. It's almost
dreamlike that we get the answer that we
do. Now, just looking at it, x to the x
power or x to the minus x power. You
know, there's going to be a bit of
trickery involved here. Think about just
differentiating x to the x, we have to
do logarithmic differentiation, an
entire technique just to do it. So you
know that anti-deriving this thing is
going to come with a bit of work. And
we're going to start with the usual
thing that we would do in situations
like this. When we have a variable to a
variable power, we often insert an e to
the ln. Those inverse functions that
cancel out. we can just insert them and
take advantage of properties of
logarithms. So let's do just
that. Let's put an e to the ln in
here so that we can use that property of
logarithm. We can take that exponent and
drop it down front. Let's rewrite this
same bounds e to the minus x ln x dx. So
how do we integrate this? And this is
the first place we need to draw upon
some outside knowledge. We're going to
use power series here. Remember the
power series of e to the x can be given
as this. The sum from 0 to infinity of x
to the n / n factorial. This is known to
be e to the x. It's just we don't have e
to the x. We have e to the minus x ln of
x. So we'll use this sum but we we'll
replace x with minus x ln x. So now what
we have integral 0 to 1 still and we
have this sum from n= 0 to infinity.
This is over n factorial but instead of
x we have this entire exponent minus x
ln x this is all to the n and we still
have dx. Now I'm going to take just a
second to rewrite this this
integral and I'm going to write minus ln
x. I'm going to take this to the n and
then we also have an x to the n. This is
over n factorial dx. And what we can
actually do is we can interchange the
summation and the integral symbol. We'll
put the integral inside of the sum. And
you might ask, well, why can we do this?
And the reason is the uniform
convergence of this sum. And that's all
I'm going to say about that. And at this
point, we need to rely on some
substitutions. Here's the substitution
we'll use. Let's let u be minus ln x.
And notice that we would take care of
this term, the minus ln x. That would
become u. But we still have an x to the
n left over. Let's figure out what x is.
Take the negative of both sides here. So
that minus u equals ln x or taking the e
of both sides we would have that
e to the minus u that's x. Also of
course when we're doing this change of
variables we need our differentials to
change. We need to find what dx will be.
This means that dx the derivative of e
to the u is e to the u. Well it has a
negative here. So I need to multiply by
a negative du. So we figured out our
substitution and our dx. Let's rewrite
this integrant. So what we have now
minus ln of x that becomes u x to the n.
Well that will be e to the minus u to
the n. So this will be e to the minus n
u using properties of exponents still
over n factorial. We also have dx dx we
know to be minus e to the minus u. This
is du. Now since we've done a u
substitution, we need to change those
bounds. Those xbounds were originally 0
to 1. We need to change them to u
bounds. So when x was 1 according to our
substitution here, that would be minus
ln of 1, which is 0. So this bound
should change to zero. And when x is
zero, that would be like minus ln of
zero. Well, we can't really take the ln
of 0. We know ln of 0 is undefined, but
it does spike down towards negative
infinity there. So, it's kind of like
negative negative infinity. We'll just
say um infinity here. Now, these
boundaries aren't quite uh very proper,
are they? Infinity to zero. But there's
a nice little fix here. If we just
negate the integral, that is the effect
of flipping the bounds. So, I'll just
use this negative symbol right here. In
fact, let's just make this a positive
and flip these boundaries. How about
that? Let's just make this instead from
0 to infinity and we'll make this
positive. That'll be much nicer to deal
with. Now, since we have some like bases
going on here, e to the minus nu, e to
the minus u. Let's combine those. Get a
common base e to the minus n u minus
another u. We could rewrite this
factoring out the u as e to the minus n
+1 * u. Looks a lot nicer I think. So um
we're getting somewhere. There is this
slight nuance of the n +1. I think let's
make another quick substitution. Let's
just let v be n +1
u. So that dv
equals n
+1 du. The bounds of integration won't
change. But what we have now is that u
to the n well that should change into v
/ n +1 to the n. I'll simply write that
as v n / n +1 all to the n. the e the
minus n +1 * u. That'll exactly be e to
the minus v and du. Well, that
becomes dv over n +1. We're getting very
close. Still need there's an n factorial
underneath here. And actually all of
these n's here, n+1 to the n, n
factorial, and n+1, none of those have a
v in them. So they're all constants. We
can factor them out of the integral.
Let's just pull that out. We have this
sum here 0 to infinity still and on the
outside what we have is 1 / n factorial
and then I'll just combine these n+1's
we'll have an n
+1 it was already to the power n bump it
up by one this will be to the n +1 times
this integral from 0 to infinity of v to
the n e to the minus v dv and so finally
Another piece of magic. What is this
integral? Astute mathematicians might
recognize this as the gamma function.
The generalized factorial function. This
actually is gamma of n +1 which is equal
to n factorial. So we'll just slip that
piece of knowledge in here that that
entire integral becomes n factorial. And
so what a great thing going on here that
this n factorial cancels with this n
factorial. We just get the sum from 0 to
infinity of 1 / n +1 to the n +1. And
the magic that happens here is when we
reindex this. Let's just change the
index from starting at zero to starting
at one. As I say, if we bump the index
by one, we'll bump everything else down
by one. This would change to 1 over n to
the n. The n + 1's just turn into n's.
And you could even rewrite this using
properties of exponents as n to the
minus n. And wow, look at that result.
It's basically the same thing. The
continuous sum turns into the discrete
sum. One's x to the minus x, one's n the
minus n. A pretty dreamlike result if
you ask me. We're going to solve this
infinitely nested integral. The definite
integral from 0 to 1 of<unk> x plus of x
plus of x. And it keeps going on nested
inside this. This is a pretty gnarly
thing to work with. And it certainly
doesn't really follow any of the natural
integration techniques you would learn
in calculus. So let's figure out a
different way to write this function.
I'm going to call this function f ofx.
And it looks like f ofx is the square
root of x plus you know the square root
of x plus the square root of x keeps
getting nested inside indefinitely. And
so the thing we typically do sometimes
with these nested or infinite tower
things is we write it like this. We
write it like kind of a recursive thing
x plus f ofx inside. So this is how we
should think about this function. And
actually we can solve for what this
function is just doing a typical
quadratic equation thing. You could
square both sides. So f2 of x this would
be x + f ofx. And then the typical way
we solve a quadratic equation is we move
everything to one side. So just make
this f2 - fx - x = 0. And hey, we can
even just use the good old quadratic
formula on this. Usually the quadratic
formula says x equals. But in this case,
it's not x equals, it's f ofx= and then
it goes like minus b. So b in this case
is -1 - -1 would be 1 plus or minus the
square t of b^ 2. So 1^2 is 1 - 4 * a
which in this case is 1 * c. Well c
isx. Typically we think of c is the
constant term but here c is actually the
variable minus x. So - x I'll say minus
a minus is a plus all over 2 a which is
one. So actually we have our function
here or we could say functions because
it's a plus and a minus. Well, which one
should we choose? Should we choose the
plus? Should we choose the minus? Should
we choose both? If you look at the
integrant here, since our bounds are
just between zero and one, and we know
that if we plug in any value from 0 to 1
into the square root function square
root of x, it's going to be positive or
at least zero. And we could pretty much
assume that if we were to keep nesting
these square roots, we'd still get
positive things under the square root.
And in fact the output here for this
whole square root mass it's going to be
positive. So I don't think we should
include the negative sign here. Let's
just assume that this is plus. And now
we have our
function. And this we can actually solve
via a good old u substitution. This
could be a problem given to you in a
calc one class. Now you could take out
that 1/2. That would be fine. And we'll
just take u to be the inside of a square
t + 4x. That makes du 4 dx. And if you
like, you could even say that dx is du
over 4 when we make our substitution. So
I think this will be 1 + roo<unk> u or
I'll just write it as u to the 1/2
power. That's typically how we think of
this when we do anti-derivatives. The dx
becomes a du over 4. I'll write it like
this. And maybe I'll go ahead and just
change the limits of integration. These
were x limits. We should change them to
u limits. So I like to make a little a
little table over here where x's and u's
we had 0 and one. And if we plug one
into our substitution, that would be 1 +
4. We let x be 1. So u should be five.
When we plug in zero here, 1 + 0 is 1.
So our new limits of integration, I
think, are 1 to five. We're ready to
take the anti-derivative. Apply the good
old fundamental theorem of calculus. I
think I'll just simplify 1/2 * a
quarter. Make that 1/8. The
anti-derivative of 1 du that will be u.
The anti-derivative of u to the 12
should be u to the three halves divide
by three halves. We divide by the new
power. Dividing by three halves is the
same as multiplying by 2/3 and then we
evaluate from 1 to 5 using that
fundamental theorem of calculus. So I
think if we go ahead, we can just plug
these
in.
1/8 5 is for u plus 2 * 5 to the three
over 3. And then this is all minus
plugging in 1 1 + well 1 to any power is
still one. So plus 2/3 here. I need a
big parenthesis for 1/8. Now, you're
welcome to crunch this number if you
want. I'm a little bit out of space.
I'll just write what this is. 5 12ths *
+<unk> 5. This definite integral is
pretty intimidating. Not only is it an
improper integral, but we're integrating
the product of two infinite sums. Let's
see if we can start making better sense
of these infinite sums by putting them
in summation notation. By convention,
let's have these sums starting at n
equals 0. And looking at that first sum,
clearly it's alternating. It goes from
positive to negative and so on. So we'll
need a -1 to the n. We see each term has
an odd power of x. The way we can write
an odd number here is 2 n + 1 where n is
a natural number. So we'll have an x to
the 2n + 1. The pattern in the
denominator of this first sum is what's
tricky. Basically, that pattern goes
like 2 4 6 8 all the way up to 2 n the
product of this. And the trick here is
to factor out a 2 from every single
term. We would have to pull a 2 out n
times. So, we have a 2 n * 1 * 2 * 3 * 4
all the way up to n. That's n factorial.
Thus, the denominator in this sum should
be 2 n * n factorial. That second sum is
similar and follows a similar trick
here. It's nonalternating. We don't have
to worry about -1 to the n. We have even
powers of x's. So if we're starting at
n= 0 for our sum, let's just make x^ the
2n. That'll take care of those powers of
x's. But again, what about the
denominator? If we write out the pattern
in the denominator, it's 2 ^ 2 * 4^ 2 *
6^ 2 all the way up to 2 n^ 2. We can
use the same idea as last time by
factoring out a 2 to the n twice. Or in
other words, factoring out a 2 to the
2n. And then what are we left with
inside the parentheses? 1^ 2 * 2^ 2 * 3^
2 all the way up to n^ 2. That's
actually n factorial all squared. Now,
we've rewritten our integrant using
summation notation after finding those
tricky patterns, but we're still not any
closer to actually integrating this.
Maybe we can use our knowledge of power
series to rewrite one of these sums as a
function we know and love. Take a look
at that first series and think about the
power series of e to the x. If we can
rearrange this, let's just leave the n
factorial in the denominator. Let's
combine the 1 the n / 2 the n along with
the x to the 2n taking out that x to the
1st and we can rewrite this in terms of
a power series representation of e to x.
We can take that extra x out front and
what we have is e to the x but it's not
x on the inside. It's - x^2 over 2 on
the inside. So really this first sum is
a fancy way to write x * e - x^2 / 2.
That second sum has an n factorial
squared in the denominator. I don't know
a great power series to take advantage
of that. So we'll just leave it alone
for now. Although you could try to
rewrite that sum in terms of some cosine
power series or maybe even you could try
integration by parts here. I think the
most direct approach is to use a u
substitution that x * e to the minus x^2
over 2 is just begging to use a
substitution. So let's let u be x^2 / 2.
That'll make du x dx and we can
substitute that into the integrant.
We'll just have e to the minus u. This
works out very nicely because the x dx
just cancels to make du. And if we look
at those limits of integration from 0 to
infinity, well, those are going to be
the exact same limits of integration for
du. When we substitute 0 for x in our
substitution, we get zero for u. And we
can't necessarily plug in infinity. But
if we let x go towards infinity, then u
would also go towards infinity in our
substitution. Now, thanks to that second
infinite sum, we still have some x's
lingering about. We'll have to change
those to u if we want to integrate this.
You might call this back substitution.
Let's find out what x is in terms of u.
In fact, here's a nice little trick.
Since we have x^ 2n, let's just write
that as x^2 all to the n because we can
rewrite our substitution in terms of
x^2. Just take our substitution,
multiply both sides by 2, and we'll see
that 2 u is equal to x^2. substitute
that into this infinite sum. Maybe you'd
like to take a second and cancel the 2
to the n in the numerator with one of
the two to the n's in the denominator.
And we're getting a little bit closer.
Now, something that often happens with
these types of problems. Let's take that
infinite sum and anything that doesn't
have a u attached outside the definite
integral. In terms of the definite
integral, if there's no u, it's just a
constant. Now, our job is to integrate
this. And if you've seen other videos on
my channel, you know that this is one of
my favorites. This is a different
representation for the gamma function.
Typically, gamma of n is represented as
this definite integral we have here,
just with an n minus one instead of a
single n like we have here. So really,
this definite integral equals gamma of n
+1, which is well known to be n
factorial. And we're finally able to
deal with that pesky n factorial squared
since we can just cancel out an n
factorial in the numerator and
denominator. And you might think we're
done. Indeed, this is a great answer.
But we can do even better. Think back to
how we originally rewrote that first
infinite sum using the power series
representation of e to the x. That's
pretty similar to what we have here.
Keep the n factorial in the denominator.
Bring the 2 to the n in the numerator. 1
to the n is simply one. And this is
exactly the power series representation
of e to the x. Again, it's just we don't
have x substituted in. We have 1/2
substituted in. And this sum exactly
equals e to the 1/2 or the square root
of e. I bet that's not the answer you
were expecting looking at that first
definite integral. Let's solve this
integral. The integral of f inverse of
x. This is pretty interesting that we
can even do this at all. Integrating any
inverse function. We're going to find
the result in terms of the inverse
function and the anti-derivative of the
original function. This is a pretty cool
trick, a pretty cool formula that you
can use in a variety of situations. Now,
the way we're going to do this, I don't
think it's very intuitive. First, we'll
do a substitution, and then we're going
to do integration by parts. So, let me
show you that substitution. I'm gonna
let u so it'll be a u substitution. I'm
gonna let u be f inverse of
x. Or another way of saying this would
be
that f of
u is simply x. If you think about how
properties of inverses work, I sort of
take both sides with an f. Well, okay,
let's plug this into our integral. Now
this would be the integral of f inverse.
Well x I'm saying is f of u. So I'll
stick in f of u
here. And so now my integrant is in
terms of
u's. I probably don't want a dx here. So
let's figure out what dx is by taking
the differential of our substitution.
We'll take that dx is well I need to
take the derivative of the other side or
the differential of the other side. I'll
simply just call it df of u. So that's
what dx is and we're replacing that
right here. Now we have df of
u. Well, we can do a little bit of
simplification now, can't we? Since we
have f inverse of f of u, we know that's
simply u. That's how inverses work. When
we compose inverses either way around,
they just output the underlying
variable. in this case
u. So now we have the integral of
u df of u. And this is where we apply
that integration by parts idea. We're
going to let u be well typically in
integration by parts we would call this
u. Maybe I'll I'll simply call this u1
is u. And maybe again I'm slightly
abusing the notation here. I think when
a lot of people do this uh proof they
use the letter z instead of u. But I'm
going to let u1 be u. That would make
du1
du. And I need the df of u. This will be
our dv. It'll be d f of u. And to get v,
we would anti-derive. Well, what's the
anti-derivative of the differential?
It's simply the function itself. F of u
here. So now apply integration by parts.
I like to do arrow this way minus arrow
this way. That's how I remember it. So
it will be u f of
u minus the integral
of f of u du. And finally we actually
have an integral we can compute the
anti-derivative of f of u du. Well, I'll
just use the
notation capital f of
u where capital f represents the
anti-derivative of little f. This is the
notation you might see in the
fundamental theorem of calculus. As I
say, every good indefinite integral
deserves plus c. And we've actually
computed the integral here. It's in
terms of the regular function f and its
anti-derivative capital f. But you know,
we started with x's. We should probably
end with x's. So what was u? Well, look
at the original. U was our original
substitution f inverse of x. So I'm just
going to replace that here. U is f
inverse of
x. We have f of u. So f of f inverse of
x. Lots of inverse stuff going on here.
Minus capital f of u. f inverse of x
again plus c. And we can do one more
simplifying trick. We have again here f
composed with f inverse going the other
way around. We know this to simply be x.
So we'll write the final form. I'll just
write x first because it looks a little
nicer. x f inverse of
x minus and instead of writing this
notation this composition notation
sometimes you'll see the little circle
the composition symbol
f circle f
inverse of
x plus c of course hey everyone it's in
this video we're going to solve this
integral the integral of arc tan x dx or
the integral of inverse tangent this is
a common type of integral you would see
in a calc 2 class. And it can be a
little bit tricky since it doesn't look
like it follows any of the regular
integration techniques that you learn.
And so when we're dealing with something
like this, it's similar to how you
integrate the natural log of x. We're
sort of left to do integration by parts.
That's what we'll do here. And for
integration by parts, we need to select
part of the integrant as u and the other
part as dv or v prime if you like. Well,
there's not much of a choice here. Let's
just select the entire arc tangent to be
our u and that will make our dx our dv.
So I'll write that here again for you.
I'll let u be arc tan
x. And we know when we select u we need
the
du. Taking the derivative here. You have
to remember the derivative of arc
tangent x. That's 1 over 1 + x^2. And
since we're using differentials here, I
really should put a dx here as well.
And then uh depends on where you uh like
to write this. I typically like to write
the dv down here, but some people like
to write it up here. This time we go the
other way. The anti-derivative of dx.
Well, that would be v the
anti-derivative of 1 dx is just x. Now,
I write it this way because I like to
remember how integration by parts works
like this. It's u * v. So, I do an arrow
that way. minus the integral of v du. I
do a little arrow that way. So it's u *
v. That would be r tan x * x. I'll
simply write this as x arc tan x. Looks
a little bit better. And then it's minus
the integral of the arrow going the
other way. That's x * 1 +
x^2 or I'll just say x
over 1 + x^2 dx. And now we have a new
integral to solve. Fortunately, this one
is much nicer. This one we can solve via
a simple u substitution here. We'll take
u to be 1 + x^2 since its derivative is
just x up top off by a constant. We'll
see. And maybe I shouldn't use the
letter u. I already used the letter u.
So maybe I'll just call this an s
substitution. Use whatever letter you
like. You could say u1 if you want. s
will be 1 + x^2. That makes d s 2x dx.
And we're seeing that well this is just
twice the numerator. We can make this
substitution. This integral and you'll
forgive me I'm running out of space here
will be minus 12 when we divide both
sides by two here. If you like you could
say that dx is ds over 2 x and that's
where that 1/2 is coming out front. We'd
have the integral the x dx that's
becoming our ds and this is over what
I'm calling s. Now you just have to
remember what's the anti-derivative of
ds over s. Well, that's going to be with
a 1/2 out front natural log absolute
value of s. I should say plus c plus a
constant here. So now we're ready to
write the full answer. I still have this
x arc tan of x out front here. x arc tan
of x, but then it was minus this
integral here. I went a little bit all
over the place, but I hope you'll
forgive me. It's not natural log of s.
We're not really interested in s here.
We want our final answer to be in x's.
We started with x's. We should end with
x's. So, what should s be? Well, we had
s being 1 + x squared here in absolute
value. Every good indefinite integral
deserves plus c. As I say, hey everyone,
it's Brian. In this video, we're going
to solve this problem, the integral, the
anti-derivative of the absolute value of
x dx. And this is a little bit tricky
because if you know anything about the
absolute value function, it's not
differentiable at zero. It has that
pointy edge, that cusp, if you will,
that makes it not differentiable at
zero. But we can actually anti-derive it
just fine. And we'll do it by writing
the absolute value in terms of its
peace-wise definition. The absolute
value of x, what is it really? Well,
it's simply
x if x is greater than or equal to zero
and it's minus x if x is less than zero.
That gives it its vshape where it's a
positively sloped line after zero, a
negatively sloped line before zero. And
what makes any input output to be a
positive value? You think the absolute
value of five is five. The absolute
value of neg five is five. So how do we
actually integrate this? Well, we'll
just integrate the pieces. So if I want
to anti-derive this, it's exactly the
same. And I don't know if this is very
good notation or not, but I'm just going
to kind of put this in peacewise
notation here and just sort of integrate
um the individual pieces. Again, I'm
probably I'm probably abusing some
notation here, but I think I think we'll
be okay. We'll get the idea down. And
all we have to do is
anti-derive each individual piece on its
respective domain. And so what's the
anti-derivative of x dx? Well, it's x^2
over 2 plus c. Of course, we're doing
anti-derivatives. And this is for x
greater than or equal to 0. And same
deal for minus x. Add one to the power,
divide by the new power. I need plus c.
Again, maybe I'm slightly abusing the
notation here using two c's, but I think
we're okay. You'll get the idea. And
that's if x is less than zero. And hey,
there we go. We found the
anti-derivative of the absolute value of
x. We just had to split it up using its
peace-wise definition. Now, I would
encourage you to click the video on the
screen so you can watch the next video.
I'll see you in that